She swears there’s a bump at four months. Though when she tells you this, she’s arching her back and pushing her belly out in a completely unnatural way. She tells you the morning sickness has been awful, and demands to sleep in every morning without exception, to calm the waves of nausea. A few days in and you catch her nibbling last night’s pasta watching reality television and looking smug. She claims this is just a brave face and pasta is the only thing that helps. You bring her more pasta.

When she’s seven months, she wears only tight-fitting clothes and beams when people stop to comment on her belly. When she gets home, she immediately complains about the audacity of strangers. She tries not to smile when she says this, but you smile at her, and then she starts grinning. She forgets to book a birthing class or a hospital tour, but she’s convinced everything will go smoothly because she has non-drop candles, a mantra, and a playlist consisting of two songs. She tells you these two songs will be played continuously through the entirety of her labor. You add ‘earplugs’ to your hospital bag checklist.

When she goes into labor it is precisely on her due date (she is convinced this is because she has been telling her belly that September Third is a lovely day to be born). She is in labor for exactly seventeen hours (she claims afterwards that seventeen is her favorite number, though when you first met, she told you it was twelve). For seventeen hours those two songs play on repeat and the candles don’t drip and you watch her pant and flex and exude a strength and fortitude that catches you in the throat and sits there until your love for her melts it down into your gullet and ignites you from the inside out.

When she gets an epidural your muscles untense with hers, your breath squeaking out between your teeth. You wonder how long you’ve been holding your breath and feel dizzy with the next inhale. She slowly uncrunches your hand as the medication eases the pain, and you look down at your now useless, swollen purple grapes that used to be fingers. She does not look apologetic. You offer up your other hand for any potential crunching needs.

When the baby arrives, sliding out in a mess of goo and blood, punching at the air and crying, you look at her and her eyes are shining. Her skin is slick, her hair is matted, she laughs with such relief that she snorts, and you start laughing too. You press your swollen, purple grapes against her cheek and look at her. She is a goddess. And with an offering of soft whispers and kisses, you worship at her altar.