Helen kept a list of places where she’d hidden her heart. After a nasty breakup a few years ago, she’d found an incantation online that temporarily removed it with one stipulation: she could never hide it in the same place twice. 

At first, Helen hid her heart for the occasional blind date, but she’d found herself removing it more frequently. She’d stuffed it in the bottom of her untouched shapewear drawer and behind an old crockpot. It’d been inside a box of VHS tapes and beside dusty cookbooks.  

She’d known using magic for such things wasn't good. In high school, she’d watched films on the dangers of misused magic. Magic was for utilitarian matters only; using it for anything else was inadvisable. A recent ad campaign featured random celebrities staring soberly into the camera with the caption: Misused Magic Ruins Lives.

Helen’s therapist warned her that separating herself from her heart too many times would result in the permanent inability to connect. She imagined herself as a detached zombie, forever roaming from bar to bar.  She had to stop.

If she couldn’t hide her heart, Helen decided to simply stay home. She made the necessary trips to her office but eschewed all social functions. However, she soon grew restless. The thought of stashing her heart in the freezer and going out for drinks tantalized her. 

What could one more night of reckless abandon hurt? 

It couldn’t, she decided as she stared at her reflection in the bathroom mirror. She’d broken down and agreed to get drinks with a guy she knew from work. She promised herself that she’d just stay out an hour or so.

Putting on lipgloss one more time, she uttered the familiar incantation that placed her heart in one of the few good hiding spots left. 

Then the fire alarm sounded. 

She ran to the living room where she was immediately surrounded by ubiquitous billows of smoke. As she crawled to the window, the sound of firetrucks grew closer. She’d already climbed outside, a firefighter hooking her up to oxygen, when she remembered. Her heart was back inside.

“Stop! I have to go back!” she screamed, ripping the oxygen mask from her face.

“Ma’am, you said there were no pets or other humans. You can’t go back.” The firefighter at her side put a gentle hand on her shoulder. It was oddly comforting, and her stomach fluttered.

“You don’t understand,” Helen looked down. “It’s… it’s my heart.”

She could feel him staring at her for a moment before he said, “Misused Magic Ruins Lives, ma'am.”

“I’m aware. I don’t need a lecture. But I really need my heart.” 

“Well, I suppose you do,” he said with a resigned sigh. “Where might I find it?” He gave Helen a beautiful smile as he suited back up. 

With that, Helen sheepishly sat outside as the handsome firefighter named William gallantly fished her heart out of the toilet tank. 

She promised herself that she wouldn’t take his rescue for granted.