My son, Evan, and his best friend had run out of things to do.

“Hey, do you know where your mom put the boxing gloves?”

Mark’s reply was firm.  “We’re not allowed to play with them.”

“But do you know?”

“I guess so, but what does it matter?”

“Well,” Evan paused to think it through, “she only put them away because she said we’d kill each other.”

“That isn’t what Mom said.  She said one of us was going to get hurt.  It was after I gave you a black eye and she had to call your mother.”  Evan rubbed his still purplish eye and winced.

The two boys tried to think of something else.

“Basketball?”

“The ball’s flat.  G.I. Joe?”

“Boring.  Mario?”

“We have to stay outside.  Remember?”

“Yeah.”          

Silence.

“How about we ask your mom if we can have the gloves back and we’ll only hit from our neck down.”

“Sure!”  Then Mark added, “You tell her.  She likes you.”

Mrs. Crane listened patiently.  After all, she was a patient person.

“We promise we will only hit under the chin and we promise we will keep it soft.”

Both boys pleaded in harmony, “Pleeeease.  We’ll be good.”

Mrs. Crane knew their intentions were pure, but that is how it was with these two. “I told your uncle this was the world’s worst gift but since they’re here…” and she retrieved them from the top of the fridge.

“Thank you!”  “You’re the best mom ever,” “We’ll be good!”

The boys bounded out and donned the boxing gloves, tying them on for one another. They practiced their fancy footwork, then ever so softly, grazed each other on the torso, laughing and rollicking, playful jabs to the stomach.  Now, they were laughing so hard that their arms were rubbery.

And Mark coughed a bit in a fit of glee and……clipped Evan’s chin.

Evan’s head jerked back.

“Oh, sorry dude.”

“Sorry?” Testosterone morphing the red spot on his chin to two angry red splotches on his cheeks, “I’ll show you sorry!” as he wacked Mark in the face.

Now they were clutching each other, rolling on the lawn, their arms going full throttle.  Mrs. Crane came running out, adrenaline and panic giving way to anger as she pulled the boys up to their feet and yanked them apart.

Mrs. Crane examined the damage.  Bruises and grass stains but nothing more serious.  As is with boys then as it has always been, they were as quick to cool down as they were to anger. 

“Mom, we’re sorry.  We’ll be more careful.”

“We’ll be more careful.  This time only below the neck.”

“All right.  This is your last chance, then they’re in the trash.”

This time it would be different.

That night Mrs. Crane said to her husband, “Please take the trash outside so the garbage truck can pick it up.”

Mr. Crane pushed down the boxing gloves in the bag so he could tie it.