The curl of hair at the back of your neck looked out of place, hardly yours. Too long, too tightly wound. I must have missed it with the scissors, a survivor when your impatience wriggled you away from my inexpert hand.

I focussed on the curl, not the blue sheets, not the tied-gown, wondering how long you would still let me cut your hair. How long before you would care about the curl left behind?

We had laughed about the ancient mannequin in the charity shop window – a small boy with cheeks gone blue, with apple smile spoiled, hair like curdled milk. That one came from a mould that’s old, you’d said. You’d pretended he was alive, offered him your hand, ducked to avoid his glassy gaze.

I hadn’t thought, why hadn’t I thought? The clothes we’d brought that day, the trousers that clung to your calves and t-shirts faded, I could have asked for them back. I could have had more of you. More to put together as pieces of a whole.

But after the bed and the curl and the stiff leather chair and the waiting and the waiting and the waiting for the news that turned bad, the smiles that spoiled, there was too much.

After – there was too much. You left me swimming, cut adrift.

After – I swam past the shop window and there he was. The blue-lipped boy wearing your favourite t-shirt, the one with the top hats on it, smiling his blue-lipped smile.

I flailed in, wailing, ripping the shirt over his old-mould head, tugging it over painted hair and cracked skull, howls coiling from deep in my guts. Batting back at soothing hands and shocked faces.

And the worst bit – or was it the best? – that even then, even as I flailed, as I tore your favourite shirt from the lifeless mannequin, as I struggled against the currents pulling me under, no longer swimming just drowning, even then I wanted to tell you…

Everything.

Because I knew it would make you laugh. That laugh where you try to hold your top lip still to cover your oversized teeth, but the laugh always wins. That laugh that we share, that ends with us laughing at the laughter.

That ended with us laughing.

That ended