Kieran bounds up the one hundred and ninety-eight steps. At the top, I double over, my hands on my knees.

‘You’re so unfit,’ he laughs.

The air is still, no wind brushing my cheek. There is a postcard-view of the sea and town, but I don’t draw attention to it. Nor to the old couple with an actual paper map, nor the black-jacket-clad can-drinkers who look not much older than Kieran.

We walk through the wrought-iron gates in silence. Kieran had talked a lot on the car journey, excited to be in the place where he was born.

‘Are you okay, love?’

‘Sure.’ His voice is paper-thin.

I wish I could hold his hand. A few years ago, he was sloppily affectionate as a puppy. Now he’s taller than me and no physical affection is permitted outside the house.

We circumnavigate tawny and leaning tombs, the names of those who lie beneath virtually licked away by the elements. A few are topped by angels who look as if they would be easily offended; also Celtic crosses and open books.

‘You know where you’re going, right?’ Kieran asks suspiciously.

‘Of course.’

I’m pretty sure I know, although the first and last time I visited was eleven years ago, just after Kieran came to us. I laid white roses on her grave and murmured that I would always look after and love her son; that when he was old enough, I would bring him. Afterwards, having travelled so far, I spent an hour wandering the plots, reading and constructing stories. I visited the charnel chapel below the church, containing the bones of three thousand people dating from the fourteenth century; a vicar was there, praying amongst the bones; I prayed with him, for Kieran. The vicar told me that tombstone tourism was

booming; they were considering opening a café ‘Up above’. Then I went home to Kieran and my husband. Now, my husband has another son, biologically his, and it is just Kieran and me.

We come to a children’s corner, tiny stones with balloons and teddies, which makes my throat constrict.

‘Where is it, Mum?’

Illuminated by a shaft of sunlight, I see it. Her grave, being one of the newer ones, is tucked away.

Rosemary Maria Smith. 21st December 1992 – 27th December 2012. Mother, Always Remembered. No angels, crosses or books. No flowers.

‘Happy thirtieth birthday.’ Kieran kneels; lays the bouquet. White roses mixed with lilies and carnations; Tesco’s Finest.

‘Do you reckon that she knows, Mum?’ He speaks as if each word is bringing him to a trapdoor.

‘Knows?’

‘Knows we’re here – knows who I am.’

His skin is the colour of a church candle; Rosemary’s the same, in the photo we have.

‘She knows.’

I kneel too. His hand takes mine. At first his hold is soft as birthday cake, then tighter, then he is gripping as if to keep me in the world.

‘Come on, love,’ I say. ‘Let’s find a café.’

