I’d begun to notice a few changes when Mum finally told me. Not only her looser clothes but the friendlier way the parents now talked to each other, sitting together on the sofa.

“Come and sit down, Becky love. We have some news.”

Surely they weren’t splitting up? I hadn’t heard any arguments for ages.

“You’re going to be a big sister,” Mum said.

“What? You can’t be pregnant, Mum!”

Dad grinned. “You can enjoy getting used to the idea of having a baby brother or sister.”

“Yeah, great.” Gross – a baby at their age!

How could they? Well, they needn’t think I’d be looking after it. Bad enough that mum worked nearly as much as dad.

Next year, I’d be concentrating on getting good grades for applying to Art College. The last thing I needed was a screaming baby who’d crawl among my belongings and keep me awake at night.

Later, my thoughts tumbled around. What will my friends think? I can’t tell them. When mum gets bigger, I’ll stop inviting them over and decide how to handle it after the baby arrives.

Hopefully Mum’s good mood would last a bit longer.

“Mum…about the third-year dance at school. I could do with a new outfit. Maybe I could go shopping with a couple of friends on Saturday?” I rushed it all out.

“I think we might manage a new dress, love, but why don’t we go together and you can help me look at baby clothes.”

“Fine.” I shrugged. Great.

When Mum hugged me, a warm glow bubbled up inside. I’d enjoy having a day out together like we used to years ago.

I was searching through the shop rails when I heard familiar voices. Lucy and Kate!

It was too late to hide when mum’s voice rang out.

“Hello, girls. Becky’s behind that rail somewhere.”

“Hi, Mrs McKenzie. Oh, when’s the baby due,” Lucy asked. “I’ve always wanted a sister. Becky’s so lucky.”

I listened in astonishment. Seriously?

Then Kate added. “You can take my wee brother! But I do love him to bits, really.”

Lucy spotted me. “Hey, you didn’t tell us the exciting news, Becky! You’re going to be a big sis – how cool is that!”

I shrugged. “Thought I’d wait until nearer the time.”

“Let us know when it’s born,” Lucy said, “and we’ll be right round. If you don’t mind, Mrs McKenzie?”

“Of course, you can. Becky will be glad of the support.”

When they’d gone, I suddenly realised that mum would need my support.

“I could do without a new dress, Mum.”

“Absolutely not. Take the chance while it’s available! I’m leaving work next month, so we can have some fun times together before the baby arrives. We’re so proud of you Becky. You’ll be a wonderful big sister.”

My face glowed. Maybe it wouldn’t be that bad. I could even help decorate the baby’s room with some of my art work. But I’d forget about the crawling stage for now.