Clare wanted to scream.

She wanted to cry, to yell, to hit something. Anything to rip the frustration from her grasp.

And yet, all she did was sit there, holding the screaming child as he wailed in her arms, hunger and sleep eluding them.

In that moment, she hated this. She hated being a mother. She hated having a child. She hated everything.

This was not how motherhood was supposed to be. It was not supposed to be like this. It was supposed to be happy, joyous. She was not supposed to be crying, lying in her chair in the middle of the night trying desperately to feed and coddle her screaming child.

She was at her wits end as she looked up at the ceiling, a silent scream of her own forming on her lips before she looked back down at the babe, the tiny creature now nestled in her arms still wailing for more milk.

“Please,” she said. “Please…”

Her voice somehow managed sound calmer than she felt, her nerves on end as the baby suddenly stopped, those big brown eyes staring back up at her, the screaming, for the moment, coming to a pause.

And it was in that moment that she understood. She understood the joy of being a mother again. That was all it took, a simple look from the sweet child, a small glimpse into the little boy he would become. And she knew.

One day, far into the future, she would miss this. She would look back on this day with fondness instead of the angst, joy instead of frustration, wishing she had more time.

And it was with that thought that she placed the baby’s mouth back to her breast, holding him tight as she watched him take, watching him begin to drink.

She cherished that moment. Or she tried to, as much as her sleep deprived state would allow.

He was her son, her baby. And there was nothing she would rather do than hold him in this moment. Not even sleepless, screaming nights could keep her from loving this sweet little child. Her child.

And as she lay there watching him, she knew, this was the life of a mother. The frustration. The anger. It was all a part of something bigger, something so miraculous and wonderful.

This would not be the last time she grew tired or frustrated, nor would it be the only time she felt the need to scream or yell. It was all a part of the journey. And for every time she felt that way, there would always be moments like this. A moment truly worth those hard times, and a moment she would cherish for the rest of her life. And that was truly what motherhood was all about.