The museum bench groans in protest as Amber sits, resisting the urge to do likewise. Her lower

back aches from her morning shift at the busy diner, the aroma of stale coffee and burnt toast linger.

Earlier, Jackie had cornered her in the kitchen, a tray of precariously stacked dishes balanced on her hip.

“Have you decided?” she whispered. “You’ll be a great mom, you know.”

Amber still had her doubts. But, if she could bottle up Jackie’s enthusiasm, she would pop the cork and take small sips, feeling the excitement trickle down her throat.

The bench shifts slightly. A man settles himself beside her. Ignoring the intrusion, Amber turns to study the large canvas in front of them and focuses on the waves, imagining what it must have felt like to be caught in such a storm. 

The stranger reaches for his lunch, the paper bag crinkling ferociously in the quiet gallery. The smell of egg salad reaches her nostrils, creating a sudden, ravenous hunger.

“Would you like half?” His voice is muffled.

“No. Thank you.” She answers stiffly, her rumbling stomach betraying her.

He hands her half, laughing. 

“Art should not be considered on an empty stomach. What do you make of this piece?” he asks, waving his crust at the canvas.

“It’s beautiful,” she says, “but when I look at those immense waves, it seems hopeless. The artist must have felt a sense of desperation while painting it.”

The man leans forward, squinting in concentration.

“Interesting. When I look at this piece, I see a promise for the future. Have you ever noticed the title of this piece?”

“‘The Way Home’ – I’ve never understood it.  Surely, the ship would have capsized soon after this scene, never reaching shore.”

“I once heard a mariner’s prayer,” he says, “and it’s always stuck with me.”

In a softly lilting voice, he begins.

“May your compass point true,

May your vessel stay strong.

And when the winds of change blow,

When the storm seems too much,

May you always find your way home.”

“But they don’t find their way home. They are lost at sea.” She tears up, cursing her emotions, so difficult to control these days.

“Look to the upper right-hand corner of the picture,” he gently urges. “There is hope.”

She approaches the painting and, in a poorly illuminated corner, she sees it. The storm is easing.

“They survive?” she asks in disbelief.

“I know it for a fact.” He nods wisely, picking absently at a paint spot on his sleeve.  “A sailor always looks to the skies, hopeful he will be granted safe passage home.”

She places her hand protectively across her abdomen.

The stranger stands, then leans close to whisper, “May you also find your way home.”

Amber reaches into her purse, pulling out an impossibly tiny pair of shoes, and smiles as they sit there, cradled safe from the storm in the palm of her hand.